I'm Gironda welcome to foods 101 today
I'm going to show you how to make this
Waldorf salad
now this salad was first presented at
the New York City Waldorf Astoria Hotel
between 1893 and 1896 so it's a really
classic fruit salad that's been around
for a while to get this salad started
you're going to need a large red skinned
apple as you can see right here I've
cored it and I've cut it and dice sized
pieces as you can see here I've got a
half of a cup of pecans now this recipe
originally calls for walnuts but I've
slightly roasted a half a cup of pecans
because I'm out of walnuts today and
it's okay to put whatever nut you'd like
also I have a half a cup of sliced
celery and a half a cup of red grapes
that these are sliced now if you don't
have red grapes go ahead and use about
1/4 of a cup of raisins that will do the
trick
I have 3 tablespoons of mayonnaise if
you'd like to use yogurt that would be
great or even if you have sour cream you
may substitute yogurt or sour cream here
for the Mayo I have 1 tablespoon of
lemon juice 1/4 of a teaspoon of fresh
cracked pepper and 1/4 of a teaspoon of
kosher salt now we want to work fast
because we don't want these apples
oxidizing so I'm going to go ahead and
add my diced apples here in the bowl and
I'm going to quickly toss them with this
fresh squeezed lemon juice this way
it'll keep the apples from turning brown
now once we get this tossed in our lemon
juice we're going to add the celery and
the grapes and I'm telling you this
salad is so nice and fresh and full of
fabulous flavors I can see why it was
definitely a favorite amongst the New
Yorkers back in the late 1800s now to
this I'm going to add the salt and the
pepper
now you also
may add your salt and pepper into your
your Mayo or your you know sour cream or
yogurt whatever you're going to use now
we're going to add I'm adding mayonnaise
this is just pure mayonnaise the light
step really is not going to work that
well now if you're going to serve this
salad right away you want to go ahead
and add your toasted walnuts or pecans
or almonds whatever you want to add is
your nut the classic way of making this
salad is using the the walnuts
so that's Welling corporated so if
you're not going to serve your salad
right away you want to wait to add your
pecans but I'm going to serve the salad
right away so I'm going to add my nuts
give it a nice little tossing and now
this is ready to serve usually the
Waldorf Astoria salad is served on a bed
of lettuce which I've served right here
and I'm going to go on in get a piece of
apple and celery and a little piece of
grape and give it a try mmm Wow mmm the
combinations of the apples of salaries
the gripe with that little touch of salt
and pepper and the creaminess from the
Mayo absolutely makes this win-win I can
see why it was a Big Apple favorite hey
y'all hope you give it a try I'm Durrani
with visa 101 and I'll catch you next
time